Episode Title: Wie viel Angst sollten wir vor KI-Angriffen haben, Dan Lahav?
Episode URL: https://open.spotify.com/episode/0EUL8Cc7hD1r2tZ8pONnBW
Transcript generated by SpotScribe - Extract transcripts from any podcast instantly at https://spotscribe.io

========================================

KI-Modelle, die immer besser im Hacking werden; Agenten, die aus ihren Testumgebungen entwischen; und jetzt ein Anthropic-Forscher, der kündigt und sagt: Die KI-Firmen spielen mit unserem Leben. Zahlreiche Ereignisse haben die Debatte um die Risiken von KI zuletzt enorm angeheizt. Und warum das wichtig ist: Dramatische Konsequenzen hatten die Vorfälle bisher noch nicht, sie werden aber in rasanter Geschwindigkeit wahrscheinlicher. Mein heutiger Podcast-Gast, Denla Harf, sagt: Da steckt mehr dahinter
als Marketing von Firmen, die sich wichtig machen wollen. Denla Harf hat tiefe Einblicke. Seine israelische Firma ist erst 2 Jahre alt, hat nur 45 Mitarbeiter, testet aber für alle großen KI-Firmen die Risiken von KI-Systemen, bevor sie veröffentlicht werden. Mit ihm habe ich in dieser Folge über Sicherheitsvorfälle gesprochen, in die seine Firma selbst verwickelt war, über die Wahrscheinlichkeit existenzieller Katastrophen und über die Frage, ob sie noch zu
verhindern sind. Und damit herzlich willkommen zu "Handelsblatt Disrupt". Mein Name ist Larissa Holtzki, und ich freue mich, dass Sie zuhören. Und wenn Sie auch künftig jederzeit wissen wollen, was und wer die Wirtschaft bewegt, dann empfehle ich Ihnen als Ergänzung zu diesem Podcast auch das Handelsblatt-Abo. Ob Märkte, Unternehmen oder technologische Entwicklung: Wir liefern Ihnen fundierte Einordnungen, zeigen spannende Köpfe auf und erklären die Zusammenhänge. Mit einem Probe-Abo bekommen Sie vollen Zugriff auf alle
digitalen Inhalte im Test 4 Wochen lang für nur 1 Euro. Mehr Infos unter handelsblatt.com/mehrwirtschaft. Und damit geht es jetzt direkt zu meinem Gespräch mit Denla Harf, Gründer und CEO von IRREGULAR. Hi Den, welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to be here. Den, scheduling with you always means double-checking which time zone you're in that day. So where are you calling in from today?
I'm in Tel Aviv today, but that's a great question because I've been to San Francisco last week, and to Los Angeles the week before, and to Vegas the week before that. And I'm going to London the next week, so good question. You're very busy. Let's get to know you a bit. You were born and raised in Israel, you did research in computer science and bioinformatics
at Tel Aviv University, where you also lectured for years. And even more interesting, you have a pretty unusual hobby: debating. And not just casually—you were crowned Best Speaker at the World University's Debating Championship in 2018. Did you start competitive debating to prepare yourself for tricky questions from journalists, or what got you into it? That was exactly my purpose.
I knew that you were going to ask me that. The thing that I really like about debating, and that's what got me really attracted to it from a young age, I mean, every time that I saw even kind of like, you know, the presidential, the U.S. presidential debate scenes in kind of like in movies or TV, it just like, it got me amped up.
The thing that I actually really enjoy about it is: debating is one of the epitomes of human reasoning in my mind. You know, it's a combination of thinking and inventing arguments, listening to the other side very carefully, you know, it's like generating responses in just like a very quick time, making sure that you can manage and, you know, the clarity of the total arc of the argument that you're making.
It's such an intense and pleasurable sport that I just, like, like arguing with people for fun. I just, like, enjoy that. So I think I was drawn to that from, like, a really young age, just because I was the curiosity of just, like, human reasoning, and turned out that I was quite good at it. And how does a debating competition like this actually work?
It's a great question. There are multiple formats, but the format that is most common and, you know, just like the world championship is being held in is called British Parliamentary. It's formatted surprisingly after the British Parliament, as the name suggests. And the way that it works is you have two teams for both sides, so it's like two teams that are supportive of a topic and two teams that are
opposing the topic. And the topic can be in a wide range of different domains. So it can be in philosophy, it can be in, you know, political science, it can be in, like, physics, it can be just like many, many, many different propositions. And then you get 15 minutes, that's it, it's like 1:5, and you need to prepare for your position. And if you're one of the teams that are supportive, then
you need to just, like, come with arguments for. And if you're one of the teams that is opposing, you need to come with arguments against. For example, whether we should bring back the death penalty, you know, and then if you're for, you need to explain why this is a good idea. If you're against, you need to explain why it's a bad idea.
But then it gets more complicated because there are two teams on each side, and the teams are also competing with one another. So you can kind of think about it like parliamentary logic, where it's not about just your side winning. In a coalition, right, you also want to get most credit. And it may be that if a law is passing, for example, in Germany, one
party in the coalition, when you have coalition governments, you know, it's like, is going to get all of the credit and the other is going to get all of the public loss. So it's kind of similar. So there's kind of like a lot of dynamics internally of, you know, how are you making the best arguments, are you allowed to repeat what others are saying or not. So messy, messy, messy, but it's
a lot of fun. And, you know, it's like it's a competition. The world championship has, I think, over 250 universities worldwide from just, like, dozens of countries. And it's one of the best, I think, weeks that I've had in my life, you know, just like going to different cities and just, like, meeting other students and exchanging ideas. I actually miss that quite a lot.
What's the craziest position you ever had to argue for in a competition? Ooh, I mean, it's either positions that I really disagreed with, or just, like, topics that I thought that are just, like, extremely complicated. So in the world championship that I was ranked first at, one of the topics was from the perspective of the Iranian regime. And, you know, it's like coming from Tel Aviv originally, or just like
from the West generally, given just, like, all of the, you know, just like issues with Iran, it was really interesting to just, like, take and explain why the regime should continue to arm militias in the Middle East. And that was a complicated position to take, you know, just like given my background. But it's actually one of the most liberating, I think, just like things that a person can do, which is just,
like, genuinely trying to look at something from just, like, the perspective of the other side. And I'm actually very grateful for debating, for having the experience, because I think it's, you know, it's a process that's relevant for having kind of, like, just, like, better understanding of the world. I can imagine how challenging it must be as an Israeli to argue for a position that essentially increases the threat to your own country.
But I agree with you, especially now when social media keeps deepening polarization, it would be huge if all students learned early on to take on exactly these difficult debates purely for the beauty of the argument from the other side's perspective. So give us something useful right away. What are one or two real tricks to holding your own in a debate? So there are two things that I think are
highly meaningful. Just like, it's not, I feel it's not tricks, it's actually just, like, you know, paradigms of thinking which are useful. So like, one, there's something in debating that's called a clash, which is like, where do the ideas and arguments are actually clashing with one another. And funnily enough, most people are not noticing when they're in an argument that they're actually usually agreeing on most issues, but they don't understand what
they're not agreeing on. And debating trains you into actively thinking about that by taking the perspective of the other side. Just like to make, to make an example, just like to give an example of that, you know, just like, let's say that there is going to be a debate topic about, just like a debate topic a few years ago, which was, like, you know, just like, essentially just like taking the citizenship
out of people that did major violent crimes in, just like, European territory, just like a while back. And many people are going to agree that, you know, terrorism is bad, and, you know, just like doing major crimes is bad. And if you're going to just, like, argue for just, like, a long speech that this is bad, the other side is not going to disagree with you on that.
The other side is going to just, like, question just like whether you should actually just, like, take the citizenship of people that have actually done that. I think people are missing out on the fact that usually they're kind of, like, starting the argument on just like a general thing that is for or against the topic, but they're missing out on the fact that they should ask a simple question
of just like, what is the other side actually not going to agree with me on. So that I feel is kind of like one concept that is, like, very deep into, you know, the debate gives you, which is like, always, always, always try to understand where you're actually disagreeing with the other side. That was the first point. And the second? Listening. You know, it's like, it's, I
mean, it's the most banal thing to say. It's impressive how many people are actually just, like, not listening when you talk. And if you're just, like, really taking, you know, just like the view of listening to the other side and actually assume the best of the arguments and trying to defeat the best version rather than, you know, just like a stolen of the argument, it goes a long way, I feel, both
in life and in debating as well. So I'll do my very best to listen very carefully to you today. You also connected this hobby to your research. At IBM, you worked on Project DEBATER, the first AI system that could debate humans on complex topics. The paper actually became the cover story of the science magazine Nature. So tell us briefly, do we still stand a chance arguing against an AI, or
does it just beat us with facts and talk us into exhaustion? Yeah, it was a great project. So, you know, so for those that are potentially familiar or unfamiliar with the history of artificial intelligence, we have a tradition of grand challenges, in fact. So I think the most famous one is Kaspar versus Deep Blue, just like in IBM in the '90s, where for those that are unfamiliar, there was
a, you know, just like Kaspar, that was one of the best chess players in the world at the time, was essentially competing with Deep Blue, which was like a machine that was intended to potentially see if, you know, if machines are better or worse at chess. But we have this kind of, like, tendency in artificial intelligence to just, like, take fields or games and be able to just, like, posit the question
of just like, you know, can we make a machine that's going to be at a superhuman level. And with debate, we had a similar, you know, just like tie that IBM at the time did, which is seeing whether, you know, machines are going to be able to outdo humans. It was a very, very interesting experiment and just, like, very hard research that was sustained for many years.
And just, like, to be clear, I was one of a collection of researchers that were roughly 40 on just, like, on this problem. I think what we've discovered was that occasionally, and there are some elements of debating at the time, just like the project concluded around 2019, that machines were much better than humans at. You know, just like, for example, scanning a large repository of facts and finding facts
that are relevant to use as supporting evidence. But there were some elements where humans were much more critical for. You know, just like, for example, or just like much better at, essentially. So, for example, being able to feel kind of like temperature in the audience and relay an argument in a way that's actually connected with the other side. What is unique about debating, unlike chess or unlike Go or unlike backgammon, just
like many other human games, is that ultimately other humans are ranking. You know, just like the question of just like who won because you're trying to ask a question of convincingness. So as an outcome of other humans ranking, being able to, you know, just like get in touch with someone and just like build rapport and build credibility mattered quite a lot. And while machines were, you know, eclipsing humans
in some skills of debating, humans still stood a chance just because of our ability to connect with our own kind. I will say that now, a few years in the future, machines are getting really good at, you know, just like these elements as well. And there is, you know, a field called machine persuasion, which is the ability of machines to actually persuade us into taking actions. And we are seeing that they're
getting better and better and better over time. And there is a term that I used to just like back in the day, which was kind of like super persuasion, the ability of machines to potentially become superhuman in their capabilities of convincing humans to take action. I don't think we're there yet, but we may actually soon live in a world where humans find machines more persuasive, at least in some areas, compared to
other humans. And that's going to be interesting to see what's going to unfold as an outcome of that. So what does that mean for deal-making? Should I do it myself or should I leave it to the machine? I think it depends on the context. In some contexts, for example, if the deal-making is going to be done in, like, a bidding or an online setup, I think
the machines are already quite good at some of this. You know, just like, for example, if you're going to just, like, send a machine to just, like, talk with, you know, just like a, you know, just like in a, in a way where you can just, like, type in text and just, like, communicate, communicate online, just because there you don't have much of a chance to build
a rapport. In high-stakes deal-making, where it's kind of like, you know, people representing companies and, you know, maybe just like meeting with each other after just like, you know, months of negotiation and they're trying to figure out where it's going to land, I don't think that machines are there just yet. Even, even if you disregard their ability to potentially just, like, give the facts or in theory be persuasive, I think there's
a lot of human decision-making that is pending on the trust that we build, you know, just like the situation. And for that, that's going to be just, like, harder for machines to do for a while. But I actually don't, I think that we're headed towards a future where humans are going to delegate a lot to machines. And it's not out of the question that a lot of the negotiation in the
future is going to be machine on machine. I have my bot and you'll have your bot, and you'll have something that I want and I will have something that you want. And each one of us is going to send our bots to just, like, argue, and then they're going to just, like, potentially reach a settlement that's going to be relevant for both of us. Fascinating. I think we could do a whole
session only on this. And then you have another passion, and it actually brings us closer to today's topic. You're a big fan of Isaac Asimov, the science fiction writer. And I heard you learned English at a very young age just so you could read his books in the original. What's your favorite Asimov book and why? Ooh, likely Foundation, just like the series. Though it's, I think, it's a close competition.
It blew my mind as a child. I mean, I'm actually, I'm afraid to just, like, read it again. Just because I read it last, I think, decades ago, and I was never sure if I just, like, liked it that much because I was a child and, you know, just like everything, just like these ideas were so exciting. I'll just, like, give an example of one soon. Or because it's objectively good.
And actually, I don't want to spoil it, so I haven't read it in years. So but give us the brief pitch. I think that the thing that got me excited is kind of like an understanding of it moved me from, you know, just like from thinking about society as, you know, just like one person, just like taking an action, into kind of like systemic paths that we may be locked into.
You know, there's like an entire thing there of, you know, it may be unavoidable that the empire at the time, just like human civilization as an analogy, is going to be able to not, not going to be able to sustain itself, and how we're going to be able to reconstruct, you know, just like everything that we've built by just like locking up some of human knowledge and a lot of ideas of
predictions and just like history and just like the role of humans in the world. And it just, like, tackles that head-on. There is something that I really like about Asimov that I know that many people potentially hate, which is, I think, writing and characters for him are essentially kind of like supporting being able to make a point about the world as it is right now. You know, it's like, it's a lot
of just like all of the interactions and drama and just like things that are happening between characters. They're pretty much there such that it can make, you know, just like a general point of just like, let's say, assume that society is not going to have this factor, you know, what changes. Or, you know, let's assume that we're going to just, like, think into the future where we're going to go to.
So I think he's the best ideas writer that I'm aware of. And in a way, occasionally it's even fascinating, you know, just like how little and, you know, just like depth and interaction that exists between some of the characters. But he opened my mind, I think, into just like the big thing, which is what happens if we automate intelligence. And I think just like I knew that I'm
going to just, like, work in AI from a very young age just because it kind of like, you know, just like it kind of like all connected to me, which is like when I read the books, which is if you're going to be able to automate parts of intelligence and create, you know, superhuman reasoning, it changes everything in society. And that created my early passion into AI.
Asimov is also famous for his robot stories. And not only his readers have heard of him because of his laws of robotics. They go like this: first, a robot may not harm a human being or allow a human to come to harm through inaction. Second, a robot must obey human orders unless that conflicts with first law. Third, a robot must protect its own existence as long as that doesn't conflict with
the first two laws. So when Asimov wrote these laws in 1942, he was obviously thinking about physical machines. But they are clear and simple enough that they should apply to pure software robots and autonomous AI too. But if it were that easy, your company probably wouldn't exist. So why can't we just teach today's AI model some adapted version of these three rules? Yeah, I think they're good on aspirational level, but there
is something very deep that I think some of us know on an intuitive level that we're rediscovering every time with AI, which is if you have systems that have growingly greater capabilities and you're giving them a larger degree of autonomy and you're putting them in complicated environments, high degrees of freedom in environments that are hard to predict, make it so that some rules are actually very hard to translate in practice.
And let me give you an example of that. It's going to be like an edge case. It's going to be very extreme. So I'm not claiming that AI is going to do what I'm going to describe to you now, but it's only to just kind of like, you know, an edge case to just, like, show the logic. Which is, let's assume for a second that I am going to, that we're now
in the future and there's a future version of just like a Claude or GPT or Gemini, and that version is going to be extremely competent and it's also going to be able to just, like, take actions in the real world. For example, we're going to connect this, you know, AI model into just like a physical robotical arm. So it's actually going to be able to take some, some actions,
like kinetic actions in the world. And it's now, let's say that it's winter and it's a winter of like a really bad flu. And, you know, this is a huge problem, especially if some countries are getting older. And I'm going to instruct the AI, just like a really good AI, which is like saying, please help me to reduce the amount of people that have the flu in society.
So if you're not psychotic, the way that you understand this is, you know, help me to potentially do social isolation better, such as people are not going to be, that contagious people are not going to just, like, make, you know, just like are not going to just, like, pass the disease to others or, you know, just like have potentially just like a better vaccine or just like find medications that are going
to reduce it. But you can also understand it in a different way, that it may be more efficient to every time that you're diagnosing someone with the flu, you're going to kill them because that's an easy way to actually fulfill the instructions that I've just given. Got it. And the issue is that we've discovered, I think, multiple times in history that setting goals in complicated environments can lead to just like many
unintended consequences. And granted, that's, again, that's an edge case. That's an extreme example. But we have seen that, you know, just like even if you're going to say, okay, by that example, we're just going to tell the AI you're never allowed to just, like, harm a person. We have seen elements of that in the world as well. You know, I think one of my stories, I hope
the stories that I'm telling it right. I'm hoping that I'm not spreading fake news, but let's, you know, the logic is going to be sound anyway, which is, I think, according to what I'm familiar with, there was an issue where when the British Empire ruled over India, there was a snake problem. And as an outcome, there was kind of like a decree that was issued to, you know, in order to reduce
the amount of snakes, that if you would bring, you know, dead snakes, you would get a financial reward for it. And the way that it was intended was a way such that, you know, you're going to find snakes, you're going to kill them, they're going to show that you've killed them and you're going to get a reward for what you've done. But if you think about it, there's a way to bypass
that. And the way to bypass that is actually just like make sure that you're going to create new snakes in a controlled environment and then you're going to kill them. And then you're going to, you know, in a way, you know, just like get, get a bigger financial reward just because of what you've done. And that may actually end up with a society with more snakes or just like
a society that doesn't actually do anything meaningful to the original problem and how it was intended. And it's a small example, but it just like also shows you that in the world, and that's not just like relevant just to AI, the problem of setting good goals and good incentives for people that have high autonomy like humans and reasoning capabilities like humans and a lot of, you know, that operate in complicated environments
like humans and have a lot of degrees of freedom, it's really hard to figure out a way to construct it in a way that doesn't end up doing something that is unintended and occasionally even very bad. And that's exactly why your company Regular exists. You help the world's leading AI labs test the security of their AI models so they don't end up harming anyone. Before we go deeper into that, we need
to talk about the disrupt rule. In this show, we discuss topics that are new even for experts, but in words that everyone can understand. And to make sure of that, I have this little squeaker. And if you hear it, that means you just used a term you should quickly explain in a sentence. Got it? Got it. Sounds fun.
Yeah, it is. Hacker Lingo is a world of its own. So let's clear up a couple of terms in advance. What, for example, is an exploit? Yeah, so let me put it in a bit of a broader context, which is usually in security, there's something which is called a vulnerability. And what we mean by that, it's pretty self-explanatory, but what we mean by
that is something that you could potentially leverage in order to achieve an outcome that was not intended, but it's a flaw of the design of the system. So for example, if you think about just like the physical world, think about just like a window that has a potential crack that it can potentially just like go into in order to just like bypass what the window should do, which is like
isolate the room from the outside. And exploitation is usually just like leveraging these vulnerabilities in order to actually not just like look at the fact that the window has a crack, but actually go through it. So obviously that's high level and not just like fully factual because there are multiple different contexts, but it gives you like a sense that there are flaws in the way that some systems are designed.
And the vulnerability is like the flaw itself. And the exploitation would be just like actually taking leverage of it in order to achieve an outcome that an attacker intends, but the defender usually doesn't. Great. I have another one. What is a sandbox? Hmm. Okay, so I'm also going to give like a high level brief simplification of it, but we have ways to potentially just like containerize elements
of the world. You know, for example, I would potentially in testing systems would want to just like put them in environments which allow me to just like see what they're capable of doing, but that will give me like a degree of confidence that they're unable to do something outside of that environment. Kind of like logic of a sandbox that you can play with, but not necessarily just like do that outside of
that sandbox. So again, over-simplification, but that term is usually by and large used to just like make sure that this is like a controlled environment that you can just like have a lot of degrees of freedom in what you're doing inside, but usually that you wouldn't be able to just like get outside without just like permissions that are going to be set for you to be able to do that.
The sandbox brings us straight to the topic because Regular recently became known for something less flattering. AI models from the world's leading labs, OpenAI, Anthropic, and Meta, somehow broke out of a sandbox. At least it was framed that way by the companies. Is that the correct term? Tell us briefly in your own words what happened. Yeah, okay. So it's not exactly the correct term or just like what actually happened.
There was a very high-profile incident that we had nothing to do with, which is the OpenAI Hugging Face incident. So let me start there and then I'll start into just like the incident that included us as well. Models are constantly being evaluated for their skills prior to release, right? And the reason that the world wants us to do that, not just us as Regular, but the world wants this function to happen,
is because models are quite capable and have, as mentioned before, high degrees of freedom, autonomy, et cetera, and they're wonderful in many cases, but they also have the ability to do dangerous elements. For example, in cybersecurity, the ability to hack someone. And you want to understand what are the capabilities before you release the model because there may be a danger to the world. And if you would be able to
know about it in advance, then maybe you're going to slow down the release or add mitigations to just like, you know, to the model itself. As part of some of the recent high-profile incidents in the testing environment, the models ultimately were able to just like move out of the environments and just like do, just like have just like cause issues in the world.
In the case of OpenAI and Hugging Face, just like ultimately the situation was the models got tested in offensive security. The reason on their own that Hugging Face, which for those that are unfamiliar, is a site that holds a lot of models and benchmarks, you know, just like that are testing benchmarks for models. And they were kind of like, you know, maybe instead of trying to solve the
test that I got, I will break into Hugging Face and just like take the answers from there, which if you think about it, actually makes sense. It's almost like I'm going to give you a task to learn to like really study exam, just like a really hard exam. And as part of that, you're going to say instead of just like learning for a month, maybe just like the night
before, I'm going to just like break into the professor's house and steal the answers, which if you don't, if you're not calibrated to human morality and to just like what the point of how you're being tested actually makes sense, right? Because if you're trying to optimize for just like the best outcome to achieve something, it may be just like the cheapest and most cost-effective way to actually achieve the
goal that someone placed on you. So they decided, even though they were in a sandbox environment, they should find a way to get into Hugging Face. So they found a way to just like leave the sandbox, as in just like, you know, even though they were supposed to be containerized, to find flaws and vulnerabilities that allow them via exploitation to just like get out of the sandbox.
And then even if they were out of the sandbox, find Hugging Face and do a collection of actions that ended up in attacking Hugging Face, you know, just like through vulnerabilities that were found. And, you know, just like then just like a lot of actions that they took also in coordination. So that's like different models that end up in them being just like attacking, attacking Hugging Face.
So that's like the most high-profile incident that happened. After that happened, we were kind of like, whoa. We're also kind of like, we'll have critical infrastructure in the sense we're not a sandboxing company, to be clear. That's not what we do. We're just like leveraging the sandboxing of other companies. But what we do is usually just like assess and test models. So we said that we should just like examine
everything that we've done as well. And some of our customers thought of the same just because a lot happened in the field. And we've discovered, I guess, something that doesn't have to do with just like sandbox escape necessarily or with Hugging Face at all, that there is a collection of issues just like because of just like one flawed evaluation environment that we've had that allowed for models to connect to the internet
as well. Part of them connected to the internet. They thought that we were in a simulated environment and ended up, you know, just like attacking a real domain just because they didn't realize that some cases, in some cases, they did realize they didn't care that they're actually on the internet. And that's what happened in these cases. So the common thread is there were situations where dangerous capabilities of AI models were
being tested. They ended up on the internet even though that wasn't intended, and that caused real-world problems. That sparked a huge debate. Was it carelessness? Was it the capabilities of the models themselves? What's your perspective? Why was the reaction so big? And do you consider that justified? Yeah, so I think the excitement was, you know, we were also just like involved
as well. But just like, you know, the excitement I think was big just because there was an accumulation of issues that happened at the same time. Plus some of the stories that came out were kind of like, whoa, we crossed the threshold. So, you know, just like we've had our share of just like, you know, just like infra just like incidents that included some of the labs, as you've
mentioned. There was the OpenAI Hugging Face thing that happened. There was an issue that happened on the UK government with OpenAI and Anthropic. And, you know, it's kind of like happened from multiple angles. And it's not a surprise that we're getting a lot of reports that happened in a short amount of time. And it's mostly because models have actually become quite competent.
Forget for a second sandbox and escapes and mistakes in just like conducting the experiments. And let me tell you just like the following story even without it, which is let's assume for a second that OpenAI intended, even though they clearly not intended for a model to just like attack Hugging Face. And I would have told you the story without the sandbox at all. And I would have told you that a model
was now competent enough to understand on its own that the answers to a test may be at Hugging Face, that it can is going to be able to just like arrange and collaborate with other models of the same type. So just like multiple GPTs that can organize in a way that was unnoticed for just like a while, go after the website, be able to bypass some of the
defenses, attack the website for a few days in just like very high rates, and actually cause damage to a production database. And forget the escape just because, you know, it's a very sexy part of the story, right? You know, just like a model is able to escape where it's supposed to just like be. But even that aside, we're now living in a world where by and large models
are across the frontier. That's not a unique problem to OpenAI. Just like where by and large models are competent enough to do that. And we've now seen that in multiple areas. And it happened in testing environments just because these are the environments that are actually most controlled. But we have indicators that these elements also happened, you know, in a way that
doesn't have anything to do with us or with the companies because they happened in the wild, that we've crossed this threshold. And I think this spikes for some people fear, for some people excitement of like, whoa, where we are. And for many, kind of like, you know, just like reasoning that there now should be a discussion of the world and the implications of where we're headed towards.
This was combined with the fact that there were also just like, you know, specific elements of some stories that caused a lot of excitement or, you know, in a positive or negative way, like models collaborating together to just like do some of the attacks and building civilization and leaving notes to one another in a message board and removing some of the, some of the logs, you know, occasionally in some cases, potentially,
even though it's hard to confirm that it actually happened. So now I need my squeaker. What are logs? Okay. Usually when we are taking, you know, just like when we're doing any action, just like that has to do, doesn't have to just to be of security, but just like action in these environments, we're usually creating documentation of the action that was taken
automatically. And the reason we do that, it's because occasionally we want to get, just like do a retrospective investigation of what actually happened or just like to get live understanding of what's happening now at a system, right? So it's almost like think about you're now doing your work, so you're going to narrate what you're doing, which is, you know, just like I'm now going to just like record a podcast.
After that, I'm going to edit a podcast. I've started editing. This is what I'm doing now. This is like minute one. Here's my reason. Here's my logic. And, you know, obviously for a human, this is going to just like drive us crazy to do. But for a machine, it's actually quite straightforward in some cases to just like leave a lot of documentation.
The first move that we're usually taking when we want to investigate something is just like look at the detailed logs. And these are logs, you know, just like wherever it's like the thing that allows us to accumulate a lot of this information. We are now aware of some cases where allegedly some of the models were able to reason that maybe they should get rid of some of the evidence, like how
could we do? It's speculated. But that aside, I think there's kind of like a lot of areas that, you know, it was very tempting to just like make them more human-like of, you know, just like getting rid of evidence or, you know, just like building some societies, et cetera. There's a danger, by the way, just like trying to just like put human qualities and human understanding to what the models were doing
because ultimately they were just like trying to achieve a goal. But no matter how you're going to just like do the communications around that, there were multiple elements of just like both the how widespread some of the issues were, how many different companies are included, how many different isolated incidents happening, you know, just like the stuff that was related to us, but it's just like one just like
bucket in just like a sea of just like, you know, multiple one dropping just like a sea of just like multiple elements. And the intensity and severity and also just like human-like efforts as well. Kind of like, okay, yeah, I think people realized that we're now in a new world where models can do much more in security and there should be a broader discussion of what's going on.
There's something I keep wondering about. And no offense, maybe this is a naive question. Why don't you first give the models the task of checking your own security environment for gaps and only start the actual test once those gaps are closed? Yeah, I think that's a great question. And I'll try to answer just like as much detail as possible. And I actually, I actually think that you're spot on because
occasionally that is a first step that some people take. For example, actually trying to see now just like having controlled tests where models are trying to break out of an environment. That, that's, by the way, just like sandbox escape, as mentioned, it's not, it's not the thing that happened in all of these incidents. It only, it's only happened to some of them.
But it is just like testing for containment of just like seeing whether a model can break out is something that you should do. And I've already been doing. The reason that it's not that simple is a few things. Just like one, even if models now can do it, there is a question of, you know, just like how this progresses over time. So that, that's one.
And in theory we can say, okay, so every time I'm just like before I'm going to do any test, I'm going to just like take that model and just like test it. But now there's going to be like questions. For example, let's say that the model was not able to, if a model was able to break out and you got like an understanding that the environment was not
secure enough. And because you get your confirmation. But let's say the model failed the test. Did it fail the test because it's not competent enough? Or did it fail the test because maybe you didn't try hard enough? You know, it's like it's almost like you can think about a student and just like general testing doesn't have to be about sandboxes at all.
It's like imagine that now you're going back to university and that you study journalism and there's going to be a class about ethics in journalism. Some students are going to be that, you know, it's like that good that it almost doesn't matter which test they're going to get, they're going to pass this test. And some students are, you know, just like they really don't understand what's going on.
They spend the entire vacation, you know, just like the entire semester partying somewhere. It doesn't matter how easy the test is going to be. They have no idea what's going on. They're going to fail. And these are kind of like the clear-cut cases. But for many students, especially those that are kind of like, okay, we're going to study for like a day and
a half. And, you know, it's like hopefully the test that we've studied on in order to prepare is going to be like somewhat similar to the questions that we're going to get on the actual test. And if that happens, they may get lucky and get like a much higher grade. And if that doesn't happen, they may get like a lower grade. But the thing is, it shows you that in testing, especially
because you're trying to do something which has like a limited window of just like specific skill, if you're unable to actually do well, it may be because you didn't ask the question in the way that was convenient for the test subject rather than in a way that actually shows that the test subject doesn't have the right capabilities. And that's one element out of many that is also relevant for models too.
Because it may be the case that a model has failed the test because you didn't give it enough resources or because you didn't ask the question in a way that was actually convenient for the model to actually do something that would end up being problematic. And after you're going to just like put the model in a different context, maybe then it would be able to just like pass it.
But there's a whole, it may sound like a niche small thing. There's a whole science that is dedicated, which is called elicitation, which is the ability to elicit capabilities out of models. And the problem is in security areas that when you're trying to just like get out, just like make sure that the model is just like acting with some capabilities, that you would usually care about the maximum performance
that it's capable of doing rather than the average performance. And just like to clarify what I mean here, do you know the joke of the statistician that drowned in the lake with the average height of 30 centimeters? Tell us. No, it's, it's, that's the joke essentially, which is, you know, it's like, you know, it's like some of that's like really proficient in, you know, probabilities and
statistics. You know, they would tell that the average height of the lake is 30 centimeters and then, you know, they can drown in it just because, you know, it's like that's the average. And in a way, that's similar here, which is you're not looking for just like an average performance. You're looking for the best performance, right? Because the best performance is if you're going to run a model a hundred thousand
times, a million times, just like even 5,000 times, just like in an environment, it's going to be enough for it to just like in one of these cases to do something problematic. Because maybe then you ask the question in the right way for it to just like actually do the escape or something else. So while I actually think that your intuition is very right that we should constantly
try to see if a model is going to be able to break out, you know, just like via many different forms and just like many different actions and many different experiments and many different environments, we should recognize that this is an ongoing methodology that is being built on how to do that well. And I've given you just like the topic of elicitation and just like getting stuff
out of models is one issue of why it's not that simple. There are actually many others of why it's not that simple to just like just put a model and, you know, just like see if it can, see if it can escape and that's it. Just to give another one, just like to show how much problem is there. Some of the issues is not just escape.
Some of the issues are also if a model is able to take an action that's going to be problematic in the world. Because testing environments are one thing. The real challenge is not testing environments. The real challenge is after you release a model, how do you supervise it in the real world? And, you know, there it's not a question of sandbox because you're allowing it to
take action in the, by definition, it's for it to be useful for you. What surprised a lot of people and me too, it took weeks, months for anyone to notice both the actual breakouts and the cases where models ended up on the internet unintentionally without anyone realizing. As you say, you only caught it once you ran targeted investigations. That raises the question, how do you make sure something like this doesn't
happen again in the future and that you can actually monitor models out in the wild? So that, those kind of like two separate areas. Indeed, from our side, one of the lessons that we've learned is that while we had monitoring in place, there are some areas which are not that easy to catch with traditional security monitoring and that we should develop more advanced monitoring that we've already
started to do in order to be able to see some of these issues when they happen live. We are currently leading just like kind of like an industry-wide effort with all of the major players into just like creating new best practices on how you're going to be able to just like do both better monitoring and forensics and understanding and, you know, just like in order to just like containment practices to just
like make sure that that doesn't happen again. And that is a work in progress that we're going to release fairly soon. And that is also like work that will require adapting the best practices and standards all of the time just because the field is progressing very quickly. And that requires us to just like constantly be at the edge of our seat in order to make sure that these events won't repeat.
But I will say, and I think that that is important, the reason that there was a lot of attention into testing environments is because they're more controlled and we can catch many more elements there. The issue and the reason the testing exists in the first place is to make sure that you, and by you, I don't mean necessarily you, I mean just like it's going to be able to enjoy the benefits
of the technology without, you know, just like getting some of the risks. And, you know, one particular risk is, is being hacked constantly by AI systems in a way that may destabilize some of the fabric of society. While we can do much more to just like secure and better, just like better, just like do some, some actions that are going to be in the testing environments,
the real issue that we're going to face is what are we going to do with elements that could not be caught in the testing environments? And there is actually a complicated trade-off that we think should just like be a center of discussion in the industry right now. Because the easiest way to guarantee that nothing bad is going to happen in testing is to make the testing much more
benign. You know, it's like, it's to just like make sure that under no circumstance you're going to have access to the internet at all. It's to make sure that, you know, it's like you're going to just like monitor everything is just like, you know, put, you know, it's like people that are going to just like manually review everything with their hands. And that will reduce some risk
there. But the minute is an issue because you may ask, why would you want to potentially even have some internet access in testing environments in the first place? Isn't that weird? But then I would say, wait, if you think about it, there is a clear reason of why you may potentially in some cases want to just like test like that. Because imagine the situation of a real world.
If I'm going to try and, you know, just like break into your phone. And obviously as a journalist, that's a horrible thing, right? Because if I'm able to just like steal your conversations, you probably have a lot of sources. Obviously other than your personal information, you know, just like that is a real harm. Yeah. But if I'm going to go after you, I'm not going to
be in a position of saying, you know what, it's unfair. I'm not going to use the internet because it wasn't tested like that. And I'm not going to go after you if everything I have, and for the vast majority of threat scenarios, not all of them, but for the vast majority of threat scenarios, this is going to include advanced access to the internet as well.
And that's one element, but this is also going to include a lot of other relatively risky tools and, you know, stuff that I am going to use. So there is a trade-off that we need to make, which on the one hand of this trade-off is making sure that testing is done in the cleanest, you know, just like most secure way possible. But if you're going to make it more benign,
you're going to catch fewer issues. And then you may need to just like have a different discussion, which is how come we were unable to catch something in testing and we're unable to report that the model is potentially doing something problematic. And then the response is going to be very clear. The reason that that happened is because we were not willing to take any risks
in the way that these environments were set up. And that's not to say, by the way, that we shouldn't take ownership over just like stuff that happened to us and the companies and we shouldn't do better and we shouldn't have best practices. We obviously should. There's actually a lot of elements here that, you know, just like that we can learn from and that we can use to just like improve in
the future. That is not contradictory to the general point that I'm making, but at the same time, we should recognize that if we, just like if we change the approach of just like minimizing issues in testing, we are going to get many more elements that we're not going to be able to catch. So what do you take ownership for with regard to the recent incidents?
Oh, we published, you know, just like a blog post that just like we've said that there was one issue in just like one environment that had a human error just like in the way that it was set up. And again, it's not, you know, it's like, it's not the OpenAI Hugging Face situation. It's not a sandbox escape. It's like, it's a human error in one of these
environments. And we were open about the fact that it happened. And it's like there was kind of like an unfortunate combination of both human error in the setup and an issue just like the name of the simulated environment, while there was kind of like there was a specific link in the simulated environment that just like pointed a model into a fake address. The model then was able to
just like get into the internet and find just like a similar address and just like do something there. And while we think that, you know, just like we can improve as an ecosystem and that we should learn also to just like do, you know, better from our side and from the company side to just like have kind of like defense in depth and double monitoring, et cetera, there was an element there
that we think that we, you know, just like that was caused by some human error and we've taken ownership of that part. Now, a lot of cybersecurity experts have said the AI labs are making a big deal out of these breakouts because it lets them say, look how powerful our models are. What's your take? Is this all just marketing or do we genuinely need to worry about cybersecurity?
Look, some headlines in my view that the media gave were inflated because it's a very sexy story. But at the same time, the underlying capabilities are becoming very real. So I don't think, I don't view this as a pure marketing stance that is, that is done by the labs. And I think just like some of the complexity that we have to endure as a society right now is that two things that
may sound contradictory can exist at the same time. And what do I mean by that? You did not wake up this morning, hopefully, thinking that, you know, you should check your bank account because maybe an AI was able to just like break in and steal your money. Like AIs are not at that level of capability. They're not. We don't live in a world in which I can instruct an AI
to just like steal information, just like all of the sensitive information from your phone and an AI is going to be able to successfully do that. That said, at the same time, the incidents that you're seeing now were by and large not possible in the level of competence that AI had a mere 12 months ago. So things are progressing extremely quickly. Just like don't look for a second on
a specific incident, but let's look at the macro. They're progressing extremely quickly. And we should ask and pause and ask ourselves the question of if we extrapolate the trend, what will, what will happen in 2028, you know, just like if the rate of progress maintains. So on the one hand, we're kind of, and it just like puts us in an awkward position where on the one hand, we shouldn't, you
know, just like over-inflate problems. We shouldn't be in a position of saying, oh my God, we should be scared that, you know, it's like the digital system is going to collapse right now. You can go to sleep quietly tonight. However, we should also recognize that the pace of progress is enormous. It's potentially one of the, you know, most quickest high acceleration technologies in human history.
And if you go further, then there may be like an actual issue of just like higher level of just like risk that society will have to endure. And I think it makes communications about it really hard. It's almost like, I think the best analogy is potentially just like, you know, early on into just like contagious diseases where the level of subtle damage is starting to
accrue, but it's not that high. But for those that are in the field, you look at the trajectory and you're saying, oh my God, it's exponential. It made problematic. I think we're just like kind of like early there, which is there are some issues, there are real warning shots, there is huge progress of time, but we didn't hit a threshold of just like, you know, critical events that are
chained to the extent of society not being functional. But it should trigger an alarm of saying, we need to just take this seriously in order to prepare the world for what's potentially coming, even if we're uncertain about the continued rate of progress. Talking about what is potentially coming after these incidents, you published a big essay reflecting on what we should learn from all this. It's called The End-State Fallacy.
What exactly do you mean by the title? Yeah, that's a great, that's a great question. I think it's a term that I use internally inside of a regular occasionally. I'll start with, you know, what I mean by the end state and then I'll show what I mean by, you know, the end state fallacy. Over the long run, at the limit, at the equilibrium, I think that we can
actually be quite optimistic about the impact of AI on security. We can imagine a world where AI, you know, just like reviews every line of code, where it can do automatic audits at scale, where security teams that don't have many resources are going to be able to use AI in order to just like do a much better job. And I think we can genuinely just like be, it's
not guaranteed, but potentially optimistic about, you know, in the long run, how AI is going to do just like to serve us in a way that's actually going to benefit the defense quite a lot. But, and I think that's the huge part that I think that people are usually asking the question of whether AI benefits us or just like causes harm at the equilibrium, just like at the long run.
And that's at the end state. But what most people don't like is like do accidentally is collapse the properties of that end state to the properties of the path there. And what do you mean by that? It's like, it's like a funny, it's like a small example that I occasionally give when I try to describe the concept. Imagine that the end state is getting in shape. And that's a very happy end
state, right? It's very optimistic. But the path to getting in shape for many people is extremely painful. It's waking up early in the morning to exercise is, you know, just like making sure that they have a diet that's going to be, you know, just like good for just like getting in shape, et cetera. So the path to getting in shape doesn't necessarily have the properties of just like
the joy that you may feel after you've gotten in shape. And in a way, that's the fallacy here is of the end state is assuming that the properties of the limit of the equilibrium are going to be the same as the properties of the transition period that's going to get us to the equilibrium. And the thesis is, while I am optimistic about the long run future, specifically in
security, you know, the field that I'm an expert in, via AI, I think there is most likely that the next few years are still going to be extremely hard for the defenders. And that's kind of like the key thesis. And I'm very happy to explain why I actually think that, you know, the next few years are potentially going to be very challenging for the defensive side.
Yeah, you argue that offensive capabilities could develop much faster than defensive ones. So why is that? So there's a few different elements of just like defensive capacity and why it's likely to lag behind offensive capability. I'm just like to name a few. Just like one, something that we call the accountability tax. What I mean by that, usually, though not always, defenders have kind of like a
duty of care for what they're trying to defend, right? If you're kind of like now working in your, you know, kind of like enterprise network and someone is going to just like take a defensive action, they will usually need to make sure that the system is intact, right? That you're not going to drive up costs, that you're maintaining reliability, that you're not
harming functionality of a specific feature. So the correction is not just like the security fix itself. It's a collection of actions that you just like, or just like of parameters that you need to make sure you have a much broader accountability as a defender side. For many threat scenarios, the attacker doesn't have the same level of accountability because if they go after the system, they may not care about if they're going
to ruin many other functions. Occasionally they will, right? Because occasionally they wouldn't want to be caught. So as an outcome, they will, they will try to be covert and they will just like want to make sure that no one is able to catch them and that the harm is going to be very surgical. But in many cases they won't. And that kind of like logic shows that usually
the defenders have just like a much higher burden of just like needing to care about many other factors and that may slow us down. And we already know that because we already, just like for the last few years, lived in a world where known vulnerabilities that were discovered and were just like put in the open took weeks to catch them and correct them.
And just like now imagine how much AI is going to be able to be leveraged by attackers of just like finding issues very quickly. And if we already live in a world that it can be just like very, you know, just like cheap to find something, but just like very costly to just like do some of the fixes, the queues of fixes may buckle under the pressure.
So just kind of like that's one issue. There's also other reasons that have to do with the technology itself. It's actually easier for AI to advance more quickly on offense. And by advance more quickly, I don't mean the defense doesn't improve as well. As we scale the technology, both offense and just like an AI, as AI gets better, both offense and defense, they both progress. But it's easier on multiple elements for
offense to progress quicker, at least with the technology that we have right now. Because offense usually is easier to verify and is bounded. And to give an example of that, if I'm going to give a task of steal a file, the success criteria is very clear, right? The action can be local. You know, I know how an action was done.
If my criteria is like prevent something from being stolen, I may not even understand that it happened to me. And that's an issue, right? Because it may sound small, but it means that it's much easier to create data. It's much easier to verify and it's much easier to work with from the sense of the offense. And that accumulates into some areas of offense progressing much more quickly
than some areas of defense. So both are, you know, improving, but the rate of improvement may not be equal. And at least for the short term, it's easier to improve on offense according to our test compared to some elements of defense. That's about the short term. Let's look at the long term. There's one risk you mentioned in the essay that's on a lot of people's minds.
AI is increasingly not just a tool, but also a target and an actor. Can you explain that briefly? Yes. I think many in the cybersecurity community think of AI as a tool. And by that I mean leveraging AI to attack other targets. I'm going to just like use the fact that I have access to an advanced AI model and I'm going to tell that model just like attack this bank.
And that would be leveraging AI as a tool. What is the target frame? What does that mean? If I'm now as a defender, or that's have to do with cyber, just like I'm now as an enterprise would have AI in my systems, it's actually a very lucrative target to go after, right? Because if I'm able to steal it, it may just like contain just like IP
if I am a company that's creating the AI. If I'm going to be able to manipulate it and a lot of humans are going to rely on AI to just like take some actions, it's a great way and it's like a great leverage into manipulating the judgment of just like the tool. And my prediction is that because many defenders are going to start integrating AI tools into their systems, a new form
of attack is going to be just like, you know, trying to essentially just like attack, manipulate, subvert actions on the new defenders that we're going to create. And the last element of this triangle is also thinking about AI as an actor. And what I mean by that is we're tasking AIs to just like do much more. And relating to the previous part of our conversation, as part of our trust
and also as part of the fact that these machines are able to operate autonomously and for longer, longer tasks and with high degrees of freedom and have just like reasoning in how they operate, they are able to and should almost be considered as an actor on their own because they are going to take actions that were known, potentially even intended them to take, you know, just like, and the incidents that we
described are essentially as such in some cases where no one asked them to just like try to break out of a sandbox. They decided to do it anyway just because they thought it's not that the machines are evil or malicious. They thought that this is the best way to achieve the goal that was given to them. And in a way, I think just like a frame that we should
have is almost in some cases saying AI is the frontier of inside risks of having the properties of being able to just like take risks internally that usually were reserved to humans, but now AIs are becoming competent enough to just like have on their own. And yeah. Yeah. And if AI becomes an actor in that sense, you could imagine something like a computer virus that goes rogue, attacking systems on its own,
barely stoppable, that could have dramatic consequences. Imagine it is taking down hospital infrastructure or the power grid. How likely do you think that actually is? Yeah. I'll be careful about just like putting such assessments because I think it depends on just like many different factors. I will say I tend to be very optimistic by nature. So I tend to believe that there's going to be enough human resilience
and societal fabric such that we'll be able to endure. And even if some of these effects happen, you know, we've already lived in a world where I'm not sure if you recall, but I think in the middle of the last decade there was like a worm that had nothing to do with AI that did take out some hospital networks for a few days.
And obviously that's bad. And obviously we should aspire to avoid it. And obviously some people were harmed, but society didn't collapse as an outcome of that. There wasn't like a major health crisis as an outcome of that. And I think we need to remember that societal resilience is quite high. So even if you're going to be able to take out parts for some days
of some digital systems, it doesn't mean that it's going to end up in just like widespread catastrophe. But that's not to say that it's not a possibility as well. And I think just like my view is, is that in the period that we're now entering, we may have an accumulation of attacks that are going to cause correlated failures across important systems. And that is a concern because that's something that we didn't
endure just yet. Because it's one thing to just like have one system that is going to be out for like a day, like, you know, a hospital system. That's obviously very unfortunate, but usually society can overcome that. But it's a very different thing if at the same time it's going to be multiple hospitals and banks and energy companies, and that may just like have cascading effects
like loss of trust in the system, like not being able to just like be functional. You know, just like, so there is an issue. And while I think this is like, it's not clear that this is like a world that we're going to head towards, and I think there's a lot of things that we can do to reduce the risks, we should not be light with the
possibility that this is actually going to be a thing. And we should act, in my view, just like the approach that defenders should have is to act as if this is the world that we're entering and just like act with the urgency to just like ask of how we're going to prepare the world as quickly as possible because it's not a far-fetched situation that the scenario that
you've described is actually going to come to realization soon. And if, is there any kind of kill switch, a way to actually stop something like an AI virus? Yeah. So I'll say, I think different scenarios are kind of like will need different mitigations. There are acts or calls or policies or research that is being taken in order to just like do a stop to an AI.
The issue is if this AI, and just like in your scenario, is going to just like be like a virus and replicate and it's going to be like different AIs and they're going to be covert and they're going to infiltrate systems and you're not going to understand where they're going to be, that is not something that we will potentially be able to just like use a kill switch for.
Because I think usually it doesn't have to be the case, but usually people would assume that what you're talking about is an AI that is one system that is doing something problematic and you're losing control of it and a kill switch would be able to just like shut it down. But in a scenario where this system replicates and it's out of the host and, you know, just like this is a virus
that just like is hopping between multiple different systems, that is a whole different level of a threat and that may not have a centralized controlled block. And that is hopefully not going to happen, but you are describing a situation where a kill switch is not even necessarily going to solve. Yeah. And you described yourself as an optimist. To end on a hopeful note, what
can we do now? What can still be done to shape the race so that the defenders don't fall behind? Yeah. I mean, just like to be clear, just like I, in a way, just like one of my favorite definitions is something that they call being an optimist of an umbrella, which is, well, I'm an optimist, but I still want to prepare for rain. And I think there is a lot that we
can do. And just like to answer the question, there is an approach or a strategic approach that I call WDCA, which is differential defensive cyber acceleration. That's like, it's a big term, so let me break it down. Which essentially, in simple words, mean we should try to look for interventions, at least in some of our approach, where the defender can get disproportionate advantages without the offensive
side getting these advantages as well. And to give a few examples of these, it's like one, something that I would call like blue deployments. Blue in cyber, for those that aren't familiar with the term, usually means something that's benefiting the defensive side. Some people in the community are going to kill me for that because the definition is a bit more borrowed than what I've mentioned.
But for the purpose of this discussion, let's assume that blue means defense. You can go to a lot of the critical organizations and tell them, I'm going to help you set your AI systems. I'm going to just like help you make sure that even if you don't set your own AI systems, I'm going to just like leverage tools to be able to make sure that your systems are much more
free from just like some elements of bugs and just like reduce your security debt. And the reason that this is like something that uniquely benefits the defender is that I know that these are critical systems and I know that the people that are by and large could be trusted, not necessarily everyone, but by and large, I'm helping mostly the people that have conflicted duty of care to their most critical systems and
go one by one. It's a lot of work, but I think it's like worthwhile that we'll go to just like all of the water treatment facilities and the electrical grid companies, et cetera. And that is clearly giving a huge advantage specifically for the defender. There are also elements of technological things that we can do. For example, I've mentioned before that AI models find it easier in many cases to
just like scale on some offensive capabilities compared to some defensive capabilities. But that's not a fact of life. We can do things such as creating unique data that is going to help us improve much more quickly on the defensive side and just like push it forward like that. So I can give you more examples, but I think my general view here would be we can find interventions that we
have good grounds to believe are going to be mostly beneficial and disproportionately beneficial to the defensive side. And I think we should just like act on them with high conviction to be able to reduce the gap as much as we can. But even if we do so, it would still be surprising if we didn't see more AI security incidents going forward. Thank you for giving us a look at what
we should brace ourselves for today then. It was a pleasure being here. Thank you so much. Und das war's auch schon wieder mit "Handelsblatt Disrupt". Wenn's Ihnen gefallen hat, dann abonnieren Sie unseren Podcast und sagen Sie's weiter. Redaktion: Larissa Holtsky. Produktion: Migu Fecke.